Align CCA Endorsements to CCA Evidence Profile V3 (#24)
yogeshbdeshpande/draft-cca-rats-endorsements: draft-ydb-rats-cca-endorsements.md

  &(mval: 1) => cca-config-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-config-mm title="CCA Platform Configuration measurement-map"}

#### CCA Platform Trusted Board Boot ROTPK

When an implementation of the CCA Platform follows the Trusted Board Boot specification, the platform will include several provisioned public key identifiers,

> which are used to establish a chain of trust. Each public key identifier is expressed as Hash of the Public Key.

Reviewer: Rather than repeating the semantic information from the CCA token draft, simply refer to the relevant section of draft-ffm-rats-cca-token. I believe this would be more consistent with the style adopted here and for PSA.

Author: There is not much of detail repetition, only line 277 and 278 are inherited to set the context. There is a need to set the context otherwise, we cannot directly refer to something external and define the data model.

2. The public key identifier is encoded using cryptokeys (key 13): An array with *only one* entry using the `tagged-bytes` variant of the `$crypto-key-type-choice`.
The length of the `tagged-bytes` can ONLY be one of 32, 48 or 64.

3. The `authorized-by` field of the `measurement-map` MUST NOT be present.

Find the related CDDL definition of Measurement Values Map in {{cddl-rotpk-mvm}} and the associated measurement map in {{cddl-rotpk-mm}}.

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-values-map = {
  &(cryptokeys: 13) => [ cca-rotpk-id ]
}

cca-hash-type = bytes .size 32 / bytes .size 48 / bytes .size 64

cca-rotpk-id = #6.560(cca-hash-type)
~~~
{: #cddl-rotpk-mvm title="CCA Platform ROTPK measurement-values-map"}

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-map = {
  &(mkey: 0) => "CM.2.3"
  &(mval: 1) => cca-rotpk-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-rotpk-mm title="CCA ROTPK measurement-map"}

An Endorser may choose to provision all entries, i.e. the entire set, or may choose to ONLY provision a single entry which is currently active, on the platform.
If entire set is provisioned, then multiple Reference Value Triples in a CoMID encode the array entries.

> #### CCA Platform Extension

Reviewer: I am sweating a bit with this 😅 
At a glance, the CCA claim looks like a mishmash of many different things thrown together to form what appears to be a rather clumsy version of a software component.
Are we sure the CCA claim shape is final?
If not, I suggest we put this on hold for now and talk to Basma to see if it can be made more corim-friendly.
If it is, then perhaps it would be better to create an ad hoc extension type rather than trying to cram all the pieces into the existing `measurement-values-map` framework.

Author: @thomas-fossati : The CCA Claim is taken from Evidence Profile, we can check this but it seems to be in a final shape.

I am not very keen on custom extension, happy to discuss further if we can improve on the base claim set. I will re-visit this aspect in detail one more to see if we can come up with better mapping to existing `measurement-values-map` structure

Author: This claim will be worked upon adequate clarification with the CCA team. For now this is not part of PR #24

  "certificate-digest": [
                [
                  / hash-alg-id / 1, / sha256 /
                  / hash-value / h'50aa341af9cb20a879440e58dd6581c14fa14bccafb75f488259262d6ea3a4da'
                ]
  ],
  "spdm-vca": [
              [
                / hash-alg-id / 1, / sha256 /
                / hash-value / h'50aa341af9cb20a879440e58dd6581c14fa14bccafb75f488259262d6ea3a4db'
              ]
  ]

}
cca-platform-ext-measurement-values-map = {
  &(name: 11) => text ; example "spdm-1.2.0"
  &(raw-value: 4) => cca-platform-masked-raw-value
  &(integrity-registers: 14) => cca-extension-integrity-registers
}

~~~
{: #cddl-platform-ext-mvm title="CCA Platform Extension Measurement Values Map"}

The below CDDL describes the complete measurement map

~~~ cddl
cca-platform-ext-measurement-map = {
  &(mkey: 0) => "cxl-type-3"
  &(mval: 1) => cca-platform-ext-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-platform-ext title="CCA Platform Extension measurement-map"}

#### CCA Platform Manufacturing Configuration

The CCA platform manufacturing configuration represents a record of production
phases and testing conducted during the manufacturing process for the platform instance.

> CCA Platform configuration is vendor-specific variable-length data.

Author: ```suggestion
CCA Platform Manufacturing configuration is vendor-specific variable-length data.
```

which are used to establish a chain of trust. Each public key identifier is expressed as Hash of the Public Key.

For CCA Implementation, the public key identifiers are provisioned as a number of arrays, with each array entry containing a list of key identifiers.

For CCA Implementation, there are ONLY two possible arrays:
1. Chip Manufacturing array - known as "CM"
2. Device Manufacturing array - known as "DM"

In CCA Implementation, the maximum number of arrays is 8, while the maximum entries in a single array is 6.

CCA Platform public key identifiers are encoded in a CoMID using Reference Value Triples.

Each array entry is encoded in a single Reference Value Triple.

Each public key identifier is encoded in a single `measurement-map`, such as:

1. `mkey` uniquely identifies position of each key, using the text vairant of `$measured-element-type-choice`.
The encoding follows a consistent pattern i.e. the name of the set ("CM" or "DM"), followed by the index of the array, followed by its position(entry), within the array.
For example to encode a "CM" key for an active array index of 2, with position 3 (within the array), `mkey` will be set to "CM.2.3"

> 2. The public key identifier is encoded using cryptokeys (key 13): An array with *only one* entry using the `tagged-bytes` variant of the `$crypto-key-type-choice`.

Reviewer 2: Why `tagged-bytes` rather than `tagged-key-thumbprint-type`?

Author: The problem with tagged-key-thumbprint-type = #6.557(eatmc.digest) is that it is required to provide the hash algorithm  in the digest, however, in CCA Evidence Profile document, Section 4.6.7, they do not specify a specific Hash Algorithm.

Reviewer 3: Note that the hash algm expected to be used is that from arm-platform-hash-algo-id as that applies to all hashes produced in the HES. I can add an explicit comment to that effect in the evidence profile if you think that will help.

Author: thanks, yes, if we have a recommended suggestion on where the hash algorithm corresponding to the digests specified in the claim is specified, that might be helpful.

  &(mval: 1) => cca-config-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-config-mm title="CCA Platform Configuration measurement-map"}

#### CCA Platform Trusted Board Boot ROTPK

When an implementation of the CCA Platform follows the Trusted Board Boot {{TBB}} specification, the platform will include several provisioned public key identifiers to establish a chain of trust.
Each public key identifier is expressed as a hash of the corresponding public key.

For CCA Implementation, the public key identifiers are provisioned as a number of array entries, with each array entry containing a list of key identifiers.

For CCA Implementation, there MUST be only two types of arrays:
1. Chip Manufacturing array - known as "CM"
2. Device Manufacturing array - known as "DM"

In CCA Implementation, for a particular type of array, the maximum number of array entries SHALL be 8, while the maximum entries in a single array SHALL be 6.

CCA Platform public key identifiers are encoded in a CoMID using Reference Value triples.

Each array entry is encoded in a single Reference Value Triple.

> Each public key identifier is encoded in a single `measurement-map`, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each public key identifier is encoded in a single `measurement-map`.
```

1. `mkey` uniquely identifies position of each key identifier, using the text vairant of `$measured-element-type-choice`.
The encoding follows a consistent pattern: the prefix "cca.rotpk" followed by the name of the set (“CM" or “DM") followed by the array index (starting from zero), then the entry position within the array (starting from zero).

> For example, to encode a "CM" key identifier for an active array index of 2 with a position of 3 within the array, mkey will be set to "cca.rotpk.CM.2.3".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `mkey` uniquely identifies the position of each key identifier, using the text variant of `$measured-element-type-choice`.
The encoding follows a consistent pattern: the prefix "cca.rotpk", followed by the set name ("CM" or "DM"), then the array index (starting from zero), and finally the entry position within the array (starting from zero).
For example, to encode a "CM" key identifier for an active array index of 2 at position 3 in the array, mkey will be set to "cca.rotpk.CM.2.3".
```

2. The public key identifier is encoded using cryptokeys (key 13). The array MUST have only one entry encoded using the `tagged-bytes` variant of the `$crypto-key-type-choice`.
The length of the `tagged-bytes` MUST be 32, 48 or 64 bytes.

3. The `authorized-by` field of the `measurement-map` MUST NOT be present.

Find the related CDDL definition of Measurement Values Map in {{cddl-rotpk-mvm}} and the associated measurement map in {{cddl-rotpk-mm}}.

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-values-map = {
  &(cryptokeys: 13) => [ cca-rotpk-id ]
}

cca-hash-type = bytes .size 32 / bytes .size 48 / bytes .size 64

cca-rotpk-id = #6.560(cca-hash-type)
~~~
{: #cddl-rotpk-mvm title="CCA Platform ROTPK measurement-values-map"}

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-map = {

>   &(mkey: 0) => text .regexp "cca.rotpk.[CD]M\\.[0-7]\\.[0-5]+" ; example "cca.rotpk.CM.2.3"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  &(mkey: 0) => text .regexp "cca.rotpk.[CD]M\\.[0-7]\\.[0-5]" ; example "cca.rotpk.CM.2.3"
```

  &(mval: 1) => cca-config-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-config-mm title="CCA Platform Configuration measurement-map"}

#### CCA Platform Trusted Board Boot ROTPK

When an implementation of the CCA Platform follows the Trusted Board Boot specification {{TBB}}, the platform will include several provisioned public key identifiers,

> which are used to establish a chain of trust. Each public key identifier is expressed as Hash of the Public Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an implementation of the CCA Platform follows the Trusted Board Boot {{TBB}} specification, the platform will include several provisioned public key identifiers to establish a chain of trust.
Each public key identifier is expressed as a hash of the corresponding public key.
```

> For CCA Implementation, the public key identifiers are provisioned as a number of arrays, with each array entry containing a list of key identifiers.

Reviewer: Unsure what we mean by “provisioned as a number of arrays”.

Author: Clarified to make it clear, please have a look!

> For CCA Implementation, there are ONLY two possible arrays:

Reviewer: A capitalised “ONLY" is not a recognised keyword.  To express requirement levels, we need to use the RFC2119 keywords: MUST, SHOULD, MAY, SHALL, RECOMMENDED and OPTIONAL.
However, I don’t think L288 expresses a requirement, so we can make it lowercase.

1. Chip Manufacturing array - known as "CM"
2. Device Manufacturing array - known as "DM"

> In CCA Implementation, the maximum number of arrays is 8, while the maximum entries in a single array is 6.

Reviewer: This seems to contradict L288.

Author: I will clarify I meant two types of arrays not 2 arrays!

> CCA Platform public key identifiers are encoded in a CoMID using Reference Value Triples.

Reviewer: For consistency with the rest of the document:

```suggestion
CCA Platform public key identifiers are encoded in a CoMID using Reference Value triples.
```

> Each array entry is encoded in a single Reference Value Triple.

Reviewer: Why this restriction?

Author: This restriction is required, as it allows and Endorser to provision Multiple Array Entries using Multiple Reference Value Triples. 

Without this restriction, they would need Multiple CoMIDs for a number of Array Entries, which is in-correct, as these do not pertain to a different module!

Reviewer: Sorry, I am still not sure that I grok the reasoning.
In my understanding, the contents of a “DM” (or “CM”) array represent a single lump of reference state. Therefore, it can be encoded in the same triple, if desired.

Each public key identifier is encoded in a single `measurement-map`, such as:

> 1. `mkey` uniquely identifies position of each key, using the text vairant of `$measured-element-type-choice`.

Reviewer: s/key/key identifier/

> The encoding follows a consistent pattern i.e. the name of the set ("CM" or "DM"), followed by the index of the array, followed by its position(entry), within the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The encoding follows a consistent pattern: the name of the set (“CM" or “DM") is followed by the array index, then the entry position within the array.
```

> For example to encode a "CM" key for an active array index of 2, with position 3 (within the array), `mkey` will be set to "CM.2.3"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to encode a "CM" key identifier for an active array index of 2 with a position of 3 within the array, mkey will be set to "CM.2.3".
```

> 2. The public key identifier is encoded using cryptokeys (key 13): An array with *only one* entry using the `tagged-bytes` variant of the `$crypto-key-type-choice`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The public key identifier is encoded using cryptokeys (key 13). The array MUST have only one entry encoded using the `tagged-bytes` variant of the `$crypto-key-type-choice`.
```

> The length of the `tagged-bytes` can ONLY be one of 32, 48 or 64.

Reviewer: s/ONLY/MUST/

```suggestion
The length of the `tagged-bytes` MUST be 32, 48 or 64 bytes.
```

3. The `authorized-by` field of the `measurement-map` MUST NOT be present.

Find the related CDDL definition of Measurement Values Map in {{cddl-rotpk-mvm}} and the associated measurement map in {{cddl-rotpk-mm}}.

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-values-map = {
  &(cryptokeys: 13) => [ cca-rotpk-id ]
}

cca-hash-type = bytes .size 32 / bytes .size 48 / bytes .size 64

cca-rotpk-id = #6.560(cca-hash-type)
~~~
{: #cddl-rotpk-mvm title="CCA Platform ROTPK measurement-values-map"}

~~~ cddl
cca-rotpk-measurement-map = {

>   &(mkey: 0) => "CM.2.3"

Reviewer: This is not generic CDDL for the rules we have set forth.
Rather than “CM.2.3”, we need to use `text` with a suitable regex control.

  &(mval: 1) => cca-rotpk-measurement-values-map
}
~~~
{: #cddl-rotpk-mm title="CCA ROTPK measurement-map"}

> An Endorser may choose to provision all entries, i.e. the entire set, or may choose to ONLY provision a single entry which is currently active, on the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Endorser may choose to provision either the entire set of entries or the single active entry currently in use on the platform.
```

> If entire set is provisioned, then multiple Reference Value Triples in a CoMID encode the array entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the entire set is provisioned, each array MUST be encoded using a different Reference Value triple.
```

#### CCA Platform Manufacturing Configuration

The CCA platform manufacturing configuration represents a record of production

> phases and testing conducted during the manufacturing process for the platform instance.

Reviewer: no need to break
```suggestion
The CCA platform manufacturing configuration represents a record of production phases and testing conducted during the manufacturing process for the platform instance.
```

> CCA Platform Manufacturing configuration is vendor-specific variable-length data.

Reviewer: inconsistent capitalisation

Author: Done!

> CCA Platform Manufacturing configuration is vendor-specific variable-length data.

Author: ```suggestion
CCA Platform Manufacturing Configuration is vendor-specific variable-length data.
```

It is represented in a `raw-value` of the `measurement-values-map`, using the `tagged-masked-raw-value` variant of the `$raw-values-type-choice`.
Refer to {{Section 5.1.4.1.4.6 of -rats-corim}} for the details about the comparison algorithm.

~~~ cddl
cca-config-measurement-values-map = {
  &(raw-value: 4) => cca-tagged-masked-raw-value
}

cca-config-tagged-masked-raw-value = #6.563([
  value: bytes
  mask: bytes
])
~~~
{: #cddl-mfg-config-mvm title="CCA Platform Manufacturing Configuration measurement-values-map"}

The `measurement-values-map` for a CCA Platform manufacturing configuration is wrapped in a `measurement-map` with an `mkey` using the text variant of the `$measured-element-type-choice`.
The value of the `mkey` MUST be "cca.platform-manufacturing-config".
There MUST be only one `measurement-map` with `mkey` "cca.platform-manufacturing-config" in the triple.

The `authorized-by` field of the `measurement-map` MUST NOT be present.

> Find the related CDDL definitions in {{cddl-mfg-config-mm}} & in {{cddl-mfg-config-mvm}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Find the related CDDL definitions in  {{cddl-mfg-config-mvm}} and in {{cddl-mfg-config-mm}}.
```

Refer to {{Section 5.1.4.1.4.6 of -rats-corim}} for the details about the comparison algorithm.

~~~ cddl

> cca-config-manufacturing-measurement-values-map = {

Reviewer: The evidence claim is “Manufacturing Configuration”, while the name here seems inverted for no good reason - i.e., it should be cca-manufacturing-config-measurement-values-map.
